context and then some: https://bsky.app/profile/kh0rish.bsky.social/post/3m2ih2jyikc2b

# Cory Proposes a definition

“Planning is the process of thinking regarding the activities required to achieve a desired goal.”
- Thinking and activities are the combined outcome of the sensory perception-motility-memory loop. At their most basic, sensations (like appetitive molecules binding to chemosensory receptors or light to photosensory receptors) immediately cause transformation cascades that trigger a movement response. At their most complex, entire organs respond to the environment, passing through the brain (for modulation by memory, emotion, etc) and out to the muscles for action. “Memory” is the many ways to modulate this response, at its most basic, methylating a sensory receptor so it does not immediately trigger the cascade. At the most complex, not acting in the same way you did when experiencing a similar event, because now entire cells, tissues, and organ structures can be changed at far grander scales while still reflecting the simpler act of methylation. The more cells involved, the greater the variety in sensations, possible movements, and possible modulations. 
- Goals are powered by internal drives, which are the result of biochemical needs. Processes do not work without various biomolecules, and decreases in the concentrations of some (or increases in the concentrations of others) kick compensatory systems on. Breathing hard because you not only need more oxygen but have to expel carbon dioxide. Searching for food because you are hungry. Seeking companionship because you are sad. Playing games because you are bored. Learning something for the thrill and satisfaction of mastery or improving your material conditions.

“An important aspect of planning is its relationship to forecasting. Forecasting aims to predict what the future will look like, while planning imagines what the future could look like, and how to get there.”
- This comes back to the sensory perception-motility-memory loop and goals. Your memory of your experiences (sensations and actions) help you anticipate future outcomes because of how much they resemble those experiences. So you could imagine what the future could look like and then you think about what actions will actually get you there, or keep you away. Even "imagined" things are related to our experience of the world and this is why art is so precious because it allows us to experience something indirectly and we can still use it.

...

Being a loop, there is no beginning or end, and sorting them out is impossible. Did you think of that thing because a sensation made you think of it, a memory triggered it, or a drive/need? Then after thinking that thing, did you follow thought breadcrumbs to others? Did you ignore it? What is the trigger and what is the response, and which of your tens of trillions of cells kicked it off? With such huge variety, does it matter? It doesn’t, nothing is rote with this many moving parts.

All of this comes about from the interactions of molecules, driven by electrostatic forces/chemical bonding affinities that determine the stickiness of things and how often they will be near each other and where they will be located in the cell, steric forces shaping bond angles that determine molecular structures, the elements and their valences determining various other properties, etc. Things just happen. None of this was designed, none of this reflects a platonic solid, there are no instructions (thats not how genes work), molecules don’t read each other or transmit information. Nothing but physical interactions.
